Numerical Representations and Relationships
RIT Score: Less than 168
Use Place Value: Whole Numbers and Decimals
Numbers up to 20
1.	Identify numbers - up to 20 
 
2.	Count dots - 0 to 20 
 
3.	Names of numbers - up to 20 
 
4.	Show numbers on ten frames - up to 20 
 
5.	Represent numbers - up to 20 
 
Compare sets
6.	Fewer and more - compare by matching 
 
7.	Fewer and more - compare by counting 
 
8.	Fewer and more - compare in a mixed group 
 
9.	Fewer and more - up to 20 
 
10.	Fewer, more, and same 
 
Compare numbers
11.	Compare two numbers - up to 10 
 
12.	Compare numbers up to 20 
 
13.	Greater than, less than, or equal to 
 
Number Patterns and Concepts of Expressions
Count within 20
1.	Count on ten frames - up to 20 
 
2.	Count blocks - up to 20 
 
3.	Count up to find the next number - up to 20 
 
4.	Count up and down to find the next number - up to 20 
 
5.	Count forward - up to 20 
 
6.	Count forward and backward - up to 20 
 
Count within 30
7.	Count on ten frames - up to 30 
 
8.	Count blocks - up to 30 
 
Count within 100
9.	Count pictures - up to 100 
 
10.	Count blocks - up to 100 
 
RIT Score: 168–175
Use Place Value: Whole Numbers and Decimals
Numbers up to 100
1.	Count on ten frames - up to 40 
 
2.	Count objects to 100 
 
3.	Build and break apart two-digit numbers - with models 
 
4.	Number lines - up to 100 
 
5.	Place value models for two-digit numbers 
 
6.	Regroup tens and ones - ways to make a number 
 
7.	Regroup tens and ones 
 
8.	Build and break apart multiples of ten 
 
9.	Build and break apart two-digit numbers - without models 
 
Numbers up to 120
10.	Number lines - up to 120 
 
11.	Writing numbers up to 120 in expanded form 
 
12.	Place value models up to 120 
 
13.	Write numbers as hundreds, tens, and ones - up to 120 
 
Compare and order numbers
14.	Compare numbers up to 100 using words 
 
15.	Compare numbers up to 100 using symbols 
 
16.	Compare numbers up to 120 using words 
17.	Put numbers in order - up to 100 
 
18.	Put numbers in order - up to 120 
 
Find ten more or less
19.	Ten more or less 
 
20.	Add and subtract ten 
 
21.	Ten more or less - up to 120 
 
Represent and Generate Fractions
1.	Identify halves and fourths 
 
2.	Identify fourths 
3.	Identify halves 
 
Number Patterns and Concepts of Expressions
1.	Skip-count by twos 
 
2.	Skip-count by fives 
 
3.	Skip-count by tens - up to 120 
 
4.	Skip-count by twos, fives, and tens - up to 120 
 
RIT Score: 176–182
Use Place Value: Whole Numbers and Decimals
Compare and order
1.	Comparing numbers up to 100 
 
2.	Put numbers up to 100 in order 
 
3.	Comparing numbers up to 1,000 
 
4.	Put numbers up to 1,000 in order 
 
Number names
5.	Spell word names for numbers up to 20 
 
6.	Writing numbers up to 100 in words - convert words to digits 
 
7.	Writing numbers up to 100 in words - convert digits to words 
 
8.	Writing numbers up to 1,000 in words - convert words to digits 
 
9.	Writing numbers up to 1,000 in words - convert digits to words 
 
Place value
10.	Place value models - tens and ones 
 
11.	Place value models - up to hundreds 
 
12.	Identify a digit up to the hundreds place 
 
13.	Value of a digit - tens and ones 
 
14.	Value of a digit - up to hundreds 
 
15.	Convert to/from a number - tens and ones 
 
16.	Convert to/from a number - up to hundreds 
 
Regroup tens and ones
17.	Regroup tens and ones - ways to make a number 
 
18.	Regroup tens and ones 
 
Represent and Generate Fractions
Equal parts
1.	Equal parts 
 
Halves and fourths
2.	Make halves 
 
3.	Make fourths 
 
4.	Identify halves 
 
5.	Identify fourths 
 
RIT Score: 183–188
Use Place Value: Whole Numbers and Decimals
Compare and order
1.	Comparing numbers up to 1,200 
 
2.	Put numbers up to 1,200 in order 
Number names
3.	Writing numbers up to to 1,200 in words 
 
Place value
4.	Place value models - up to 1,200 
 
5.	Value of a digit - up to thousands 
 
6.	Convert between place values - ones and hundreds 
 
7.	Convert to/from a number - up to 1,200 
 
8.	Convert from expanded form - up to hundreds 
 
Represent and Generate Fractions
1.	Make halves, fourths, and eighths 
 
2.	Make eighths 
 
3.	Identify eighths 
4.	Identify the fraction - halves, fourths, and eighths 
 
5.	Which shape illustrates the fraction? - halves, fourths, and eighths 
 
Number Patterns and Concepts of Expressions
1.	Even or odd number of shapes - up to 20 
 
RIT Score: 189–194
Use Place Value: Whole Numbers and Decimals
Compare and order numbers
1.	Compare numbers up to 100,000 
 
2.	Which number is greatest/least? 
 
3.	Order numbers up to 100,000 
 
Place value
4.	Place value models up to thousands 
 
5.	Value of a digit up to ten thousands 
 
6.	Convert between place values 
 
Represent and Generate Fractions
Understand fractions
1.	Understand fractions: fraction bars 
 
2.	Understand fractions: area models 
 
Show fractions
3.	Show fractions: fraction bars 
 
4.	Show fractions: area models 
 
Match fractions to models
5.	Match fractions to models: halves, thirds, and fourths 
 
6.	Match unit fractions to models 
 
7.	Match fractions to models 
 
Number lines
8.	Fractions of number lines: unit fractions 
 
9.	Fractions of number lines: halves, fourths, and eighths 
 
10.	Fractions of number lines 
 
11.	Graph unit fractions on number lines 
 
12.	Graph fractions on number lines 
 
13.	Identify unit fractions on number lines 
 
14.	Identify fractions on number lines 
 
Decompose fractions
15.	Decompose fractions into unit fractions 
 
Real-world problems
16.	Unit fractions: modeling word problems 
 
17.	Unit fractions: word problems 
 
18.	Fractions of a whole: modeling word problems 
 
19.	Fractions of a whole: word problems 
 
RIT Score: 195–200
Use Place Value: Whole Numbers and Decimals
Expanded form
1.	Convert to/from a number 
 
2.	Convert from expanded form 
 
3.	Convert between standard and expanded form 
 
Multiplication patterns
4.	Multiplication patterns over increasing place values 
 
Represent and Generate Fractions
Find equivalent fractions
1.	Find equivalent fractions using area models: two models 
 
2.	Find equivalent fractions using area models: one model 
 
3.	Identify equivalent fractions on number lines 
 
4.	Graph equivalent fractions on number lines 
 
5.	Graph fractions equivalent to 1 on number lines 
 
6.	Find equivalent fractions using number lines 
 
Compare fractions using models
7.	Compare fractions using models 
 
8.	Compare fractions using number lines 
 
9.	Graph and compare fractions with like denominators on number lines 
 
10.	Graph and compare fractions with like numerators on number lines 
 
11.	Graph and compare fractions on number lines 
 
Compare fractions
12.	Compare fractions 
 
13.	Compare fractions in recipes 
 
RIT Score: 201–205
Use Place Value: Whole Numbers and Decimals
Place value
1.	Relationship between place values 
 
2.	Convert between place values 
 
3.	Place value review 
 
4.	Value of a digit: up to one billion 
 
5.	Place value names 
 
6.	Place value review: up to one billion 
 
7.	Place value word problems 
 
Expanded form
8.	Convert numbers between standard form and expanded notation: up to one billion 
Compare whole numbers
9.	Compare numbers up to one billion 
 
Round whole numbers
10.	Rounding: up to millions place 
 
11.	Rounding: up to hundred thousands place 
 
12.	Rounding input/output tables 
 
Represent and Generate Fractions
Fractions review
1.	Fractions review 
 
Decompose fractions
2.	Decompose fractions into unit fractions using models 
 
Model equivalent fractions
3.	Identify equivalent fractions using number lines 
 
4.	Find equivalent fractions using area models 
 
5.	Graph equivalent fractions on number lines 
 
Compare and order fractions
6.	Compare fractions using models 
 
7.	Graph and order fractions on number lines 
 
RIT Score: 206–210
Use Place Value: Whole Numbers and Decimals
Decimal number names
1.	Understanding decimals expressed in words 
 
Decimal place value
2.	Place values in decimal numbers 
 
3.	Value of a digit in a decimal number 
4.	Convert decimals between standard form and expanded notation using fractions 
Represent decimals
5.	What decimal number is illustrated? 
 
6.	Decimal number lines 
 
7.	Graph decimals on number lines 
 
Money
8.	Relate decimals and money 
 
9.	Count coins and bills - up to $20 bill 
 
Compare decimals
10.	Compare decimals using models 
 
11.	Compare decimals using place value blocks 
 
12.	Compare decimals on number lines 
 
13.	Compare decimal numbers 
 
Order decimals
14.	Put decimal numbers in order using a number line 
 
15.	Put decimal numbers in order using models 
 
16.	Put decimal numbers in order I 
 
17.	Put decimal numbers in order II 
 
18.	Put decimal numbers less than one in order 
 
Represent and Generate Fractions
Decompose fractions
1.	Decompose fractions into unit fractions 
 
2.	Decompose fractions 
 
3.	Decompose fractions multiple ways 
 
Find equivalent fractions
4.	Are the fractions equivalent? 
 
5.	Identify equivalent fractions 
 
6.	Equivalent fractions: find the missing numerator or denominator 
 
7.	Fractions with denominators of 10 and 100 
 
8.	Patterns of equivalent fractions 
 
9.	Write fractions in lowest terms 
 
Compare fractions
10.	Benchmark fractions 
 
11.	Compare fractions using benchmarks 
 
12.	Compare fractions using benchmarks: find the missing numerator 
 
13.	Compare fractions 
 
14.	Compare fractions: find the missing numerator or denominator 
 
15.	Compare fractions in recipes 
 
Order fractions
16.	Order fractions 
 
RIT Score: 211–214
Use Place Value: Whole Numbers and Decimals
Read and write decimals
1.	Understanding decimals expressed in words 
 
2.	Place values in decimal numbers 
 
3.	Value of a digit in a decimal number 
 
Compare and order decimals
4.	Compare decimals using grids 
 
5.	Compare decimals on number lines 
 
6.	Compare decimal numbers 
 
7.	Put decimal numbers in order 
 
Round decimals
8.	Round decimals 
 
Number Patterns and Concepts of Expressions
Prime and composite numbers
1.	Prime and composite numbers 
 
Numerical expressions
2.	Evaluate numerical expressions with and without parentheses 
 
3.	Evaluate numerical expressions with parentheses 
 
RIT Score: 215–217
Use Place Value: Whole Numbers and Decimals
1.	Convert decimals between standard form and expanded notation 
2.	Convert decimals between standard form and expanded notation using fractions 
3.	Compare, order, and round decimals: word problems 
 
Number Patterns and Concepts of Expressions
1.	Evaluate numerical expressions with parentheses and brackets 
 
2.	Evaluate numerical expressions with parentheses in different places 
 
RIT Score: 218–219
Use Place Value: Whole Numbers and Decimals
Decimals
1.	Decimal number lines 
 
Integers
2.	Integers on number lines 
 
3.	Compare integers 
 
Represent and Generate Fractions
Number lines
1.	Fractions on number lines 
 
Real-world problems
2.	Fractions of a group: word problems 
 
3.	Understand fractions as division: word problems 
 
Convert decimals, fractions, and percents
4.	Convert between fractions and repeating decimals 
 
5.	Convert between improper fractions and mixed numbers 
 
6.	Convert fractions to decimals 
 
7.	Convert decimals to fractions 
 
8.	Convert between decimals and fractions 
 
9.	Convert between decimals and mixed numbers 
 
10.	Convert between percents, fractions, and decimals: word problems 
 
Order decimals, fractions, and mixed numbers
11.	Put a mix of decimals and fractions in order 
 
12.	Put a mix of decimals, fractions, and mixed numbers in order 
 
Number Patterns and Concepts of Expressions
Whole number exponents
1.	Write multiplication expressions using exponents 
 
2.	Write powers of ten with exponents 
 
Prime factorization
3.	Prime factorization 
 
4.	Prime factorization with exponents 
 
Order of operations
5.	Evaluate numerical expressions involving whole numbers 
 
6.	Identify mistakes involving the order of operations 
 
Properties of operations
7.	Properties of addition 
 
8.	Properties of multiplication 
 
Equations
9.	Does x satisfy an equation? 
 
10.	Which x satisfies an equation? 
 
Inequalities
11.	Solutions to inequalities 
 
RIT Score: 220–221
Use Place Value: Whole Numbers and Decimals
Integers
1.	Graph integers on horizontal and vertical number lines 
 
2.	Put integers in order 
 
3.	Integer inequalities with absolute values 
 
Rational numbers
4.	Compare and order rational numbers using number lines 
 
5.	Rational numbers: equal or not equal 
 
6.	Compare rational numbers 
 
7.	Put rational numbers in order 
 
Real-world problems
8.	Compare temperatures above and below zero 
 
9.	Compare and order rational numbers: word problems 
 
Represent and Generate Fractions
Rational numbers
1.	Write rational numbers in the form a/b 
2.	Rational numbers on number lines 
 
Percent models
3.	What percentage is illustrated? 
 
4.	Represent percents with grid models, decimals, and fractions 
 
Number Patterns and Concepts of Expressions
Like terms
1.	Combine like terms 
 
2.	Add and subtract like terms 
 
Distributive property
3.	Multiply using the distributive property 
 
4.	Multiply using the distributive property: area models 
 
5.	Factor variable expressions using the distributive property 
 
Write expressions
6.	Write equivalent expressions using properties 
 
7.	Write variable expressions: one operation 
 
RIT Score: 222+
Represent and Generate Fractions
1.	Probability of simple events 
 
2.	Compare ratios: word problems 
 
Number Patterns and Concepts of Expressions
Solve equations
1.	Model and solve equations using algebra tiles 
 
2.	Solve two-step equations: word problems 
 
3.	Write and solve equations that represent diagrams 
 
4.	Solve two-step equations without parentheses 
 
5.	Solve equations involving like terms 
 
6.	Solve equations: complete the solution 
 
7.	Which x satisfies a two-step equation? 
 
Solve inequalities
8.	Solve two-step inequalities 
 
9.	Graph solutions to two-step inequalities 
 
10.	Solutions to inequalities 
 
Add and subtract integers
11.	Integer addition rules 
 
12.	Integer subtraction rules 
 
13.	Integer addition and subtraction rules 
 
Multiply and divide integers
14.	Integer multiplication rules 
 
15.	Integer division rules 
 
16.	Integer multiplication and division rules 
 
Mixed operations
17.	Apply addition and subtraction rules 
 
18.	Apply multiplication and division rules 
 
Computations and Algebraic Relationships
RIT Score: Less than 168
Represent and Solve Problems
Addition
1.	Addition word problems with pictures - sums up to 10 
 
2.	Addition word problems - sums up to 10 
 
Subtraction
3.	Subtraction word problems with pictures - up to 10 
 
4.	Subtraction word problems - up to 10 
 
RIT Score: 168–175
Whole Number and Decimal Computations
Addition skill builders
1.	Adding 1 
 
2.	Adding 2 
 
3.	Adding 3 
 
4.	Adding 4 
 
5.	Adding 5 
 
6.	Adding 6 
 
7.	Adding 7 
 
8.	Adding 8 
 
9.	Adding 9 
 
10.	Adding 0 
 
Add within 10
11.	Addition sentences up to 10: which model matches? 
 
12.	Addition facts - sums up to 10 
 
13.	Make a number using addition - sums up to 10 
 
14.	Ways to make a number - addition sentences up to 10 
 
15.	Complete the addition sentence - sums up to 10 
 
Add within 20
16.	Addition facts - sums up to 20 
 
17.	Make a number using addition - sums up to 20 
 
18.	Complete the addition sentence - sums up to 20 
 
Addition strategies
19.	Related addition facts 
 
20.	Add using doubles plus one 
 
21.	Add using doubles minus one 
 
22.	Add three numbers - use doubles 
 
23.	Complete the addition sentence to make ten 
 
24.	Add three numbers - make ten 
 
25.	Add three numbers 
 
26.	Use ten to add - sums up to 20 
27.	Addition sentences: true or false? 
 
28.	Addition sentences: which is true? 
 
Subtraction skill builders
29.	Subtracting 1 
 
30.	Subtracting 2 
 
31.	Subtracting 3 
 
32.	Subtracting 4 
 
33.	Subtracting 5 
 
34.	Subtracting 6 
 
35.	Subtracting 7 
 
36.	Subtracting 8 
 
37.	Subtracting 9 
 
38.	Subtracting 0 
 
Subtract within 10
39.	Subtraction sentences up to 10: which model matches? 
 
40.	Subtraction facts - up to 10 
 
41.	Make a number using subtraction - up to 10 
 
42.	Ways to make a number - subtraction sentences up to 10 
 
43.	Ways to subtract from a number - subtraction sentences up to 10 
 
44.	Complete the subtraction sentence - up to 10 
 
Subtract within 20
45.	Subtraction facts - up to 20 
 
46.	Make a number using subtraction - up to 20 
 
47.	Complete the subtraction sentence - up to 20 
 
Subtraction strategies
48.	Related subtraction facts 
 
49.	Use addition to subtract - up to 20 
 
50.	Subtract doubles 
 
51.	Subtraction sentences: true or false? 
 
52.	Subtraction sentences: which is true? 
 
Mixed operations
53.	Addition and subtraction - ways to make a number 
 
54.	Fact families - up to 10 
 
55.	Addition and subtraction facts - up to 10 
 
56.	Addition and subtraction facts - up to 20 
 
57.	Relate addition and subtraction sentences - up to 20 
 
58.	Balance addition and subtraction equations - up to 10 
59.	Balance addition and subtraction equations - up to 20 
 
60.	Which sign makes the number sentence true? 
 
61.	Addition and subtraction sentences to 20: which is true? 
 
Represent and Solve Problems
Addition
1.	Addition word problems - sums up to 20 
 
2.	Add three numbers - word problems 
 
Subtraction
3.	Subtraction word problems - up to 20 
 
RIT Score: 176–182
Whole Number and Decimal Computations
Addition
1.	Add one-digit numbers - sums to 10 
 
2.	Add one-digit numbers - sums to 20 
 
3.	Complete the addition sentence - sums to 20 
 
Subtraction
4.	Subtract one-digit numbers - up to 10 
 
5.	Ways to make a number using subtraction - up to 10 
 
6.	Subtract a one-digit number from a two-digit number up to 20 
 
7.	Subtract zero or all 
 
8.	Complete the subtraction sentence - up to 20 
 
Mixed operations
9.	Addition and subtraction - up to 20 
 
Represent and Solve Problems
Addition
1.	Addition word problems - sums to 20 
 
2.	Addition word problems - three one-digit numbers 
 
3.	Addition sentences for word problems - sums to 20 
 
Subtraction
4.	Subtraction word problems - up to 20 
 
5.	Subtraction sentences for word problems - up to 20 
 
Mixed operations
6.	Addition and subtraction word problems - up to 20 
 
RIT Score: 183–188
Whole Number and Decimal Computations
Addition without regrouping
1.	Add a two-digit and a one-digit number - without regrouping 
 
2.	Add two-digit numbers without regrouping - sums to 100 
 
3.	Use models to add two-digit numbers - without regrouping 
 
4.	Use compensation to add - up to two digits 
 
Addition with regrouping
5.	Add a two-digit and a one-digit number - with regrouping 
 
6.	Use models to add two-digit numbers - with regrouping 
 
7.	Add two-digit numbers with regrouping - sums to 100 
 
8.	Add two-digit numbers - sums to 200 
 
9.	Add three numbers up to two digits each 
 
10.	Add four numbers up to two digits each 
 
Subtraction without regrouping
11.	Subtract a one-digit number from a two-digit number - without regrouping 
 
12.	Subtract two-digit numbers - without regrouping 
 
Subtraction with regrouping
13.	Subtract a one-digit number from a two-digit number - with regrouping 
 
14.	Subtract two-digit numbers - with regrouping 
 
Multiplication
15.	Count equal groups 
 
Division
16.	Divide by counting equal groups 
 
17.	Write division sentences for groups 
 
Represent and Solve Problems
Two-digit addition
1.	Addition word problems - up to two digits 
 
2.	Addition word problems - three numbers up to two digits each 
 
3.	Addition word problems - four numbers up to two digits each 
 
4.	Write the addition sentence - up to two digits 
 
Three-digit addition
5.	Addition word problems - up to three digits 
 
6.	Write the addition sentence - up to three digits 
 
Two-digit subtraction
7.	Subtraction word problems - up to two digits 
 
8.	Write the subtraction sentence - up to two digits 
 
Three-digit subtraction
9.	Subtraction word problems - up to three digits 
 
10.	Write the subtraction sentence - up to three digits 
 
Addition and subtraction
11.	Addition and subtraction word problems - up to 100 
 
12.	Two-step addition and subtraction word problems - up to 100 
 
Multiplication
13.	Count equal groups 
 
Division
14.	Divide by counting equal groups 
 
15.	Write division sentences for groups 
 
RIT Score: 189–194
Whole Number and Decimal Computations
Repeated addition
1.	Relate addition and multiplication for equal groups 
 
2.	Relate addition and multiplication 
 
Equal groups
3.	Identify multiplication expressions for equal groups 
 
4.	Write multiplication sentences for equal groups 
 
Arrays
5.	Identify multiplication expressions for arrays 
 
6.	Write multiplication sentences for arrays 
 
7.	Make arrays to model multiplication 
 
Number lines
8.	Write multiplication sentences for number lines 
 
Skip-counting
9.	Skip-count 
 
10.	Skip-counting puzzles 
 
Represent and Solve Problems
Round whole numbers
1.	Round to the nearest ten or hundred 
 
2.	Rounding puzzles 
 
Estimation
3.	Estimate sums using compatible numbers 
 
4.	Estimate sums by rounding: up to 1,000 
 
5.	Estimate differences by rounding: up to 1,000 
 
Addition and subtraction
6.	Addition input/output tables: up to three digits 
 
7.	Subtraction input/output tables: up to three digits 
 
RIT Score: 195–200
Whole Number and Decimal Computations
Multiplication skill builders
1.	Multiply 0 by numbers up to 10 
 
2.	Multiply 1 by numbers up to 10 
 
3.	Multiply 2 by numbers up to 10 
 
4.	Multiply 3 by numbers up to 10 
 
5.	Multiply 4 by numbers up to 10 
 
6.	Multiply 5 by numbers up to 10 
 
7.	Multiply 6 by numbers up to 10 
 
8.	Multiply 7 by numbers up to 10 
 
9.	Multiply 8 by numbers up to 10 
 
10.	Multiply 9 by numbers up to 10 
 
11.	Multiply 10 by numbers up to 10 
 
Multiplication facts for 2, 3, 4, 5, and 10
12.	Multiplication facts for 2, 3, 4, 5, and 10 
 
13.	Multiplication facts for 2, 3, 4, 5, and 10: true or false? 
 
14.	Multiplication facts for 2, 3, 4, 5, and 10: sorting 
 
Multiplication facts for 6, 7, 8, and 9
15.	Multiplication facts for 6, 7, 8, and 9 
 
16.	Multiplication facts for 6, 7, 8, and 9: true or false? 
 
17.	Multiplication facts for 6, 7, 8, and 9: sorting 
 
Multiplication facts up to 10
18.	Multiplication facts up to 10 
 
19.	Multiplication facts up to 10: true or false? 
 
20.	Multiplication facts up to 10: sorting 
 
21.	Multiplication sentences up to 10: true or false? 
 
22.	Multiplication word problems with factors up to 10: find the missing number 
 
Division skill builders
23.	Divide by 1: quotients up to 10 
 
24.	Divide by 2: quotients up to 10 
 
25.	Divide by 3: quotients up to 10 
 
26.	Divide by 4: quotients up to 10 
 
27.	Divide by 5: quotients up to 10 
 
28.	Divide by 6: quotients up to 10 
 
29.	Divide by 7: quotients up to 10 
 
30.	Divide by 8: quotients up to 10 
 
31.	Divide by 9: quotients up to 10 
 
32.	Divide by 10: quotients up to 10 
 
Division facts for 2, 3, 4, 5, and 10
33.	Division facts for 2, 3, 4, 5, and 10 
 
34.	Division facts for 2, 3, 4, 5, and 10: true or false? 
 
35.	Division facts for 2, 3, 4, 5, and 10: sorting 
 
Division facts for 6, 7, 8, and 9
36.	Division facts for 6, 7, 8, and 9 
 
37.	Division facts for 6, 7, 8, and 9: true or false? 
 
38.	Division facts for 6, 7, 8, and 9: sorting 
 
Division facts up to 10
39.	Division facts up to 10 
 
40.	Division facts up to 10: true or false? 
 
41.	Division facts up to 10: sorting 
 
42.	Division sentences up to 10: true or false? 
 
Multiply by two-digit numbers
43.	Multiply by a multiple of ten 
 
44.	Multiply one-digit numbers by two-digit numbers using area models I 
 
45.	Multiply one-digit numbers by two-digit numbers using area models II 
 
46.	Multiply one-digit numbers by two-digit numbers 
 
47.	Multiply one-digit numbers by two-digit numbers: word problems 
 
Properties of multiplication
48.	Properties of multiplication 
 
49.	Distributive property: find the missing factor 
 
50.	Multiply using the distributive property 
 
51.	Solve using properties of multiplication 
 
Mixed operations
52.	Multiplication and division facts up to 5: true or false? 
 
53.	Multiplication and division facts up to 10: true or false? 
 
54.	Relate multiplication and division 
 
Represent and Solve Problems
Comparison problems
1.	Compare numbers using multiplication 
 
2.	Compare numbers using multiplication: word problems 
 
3.	Comparison word problems: addition or multiplication? 
 
Multiplication equations
4.	Multiplication facts for 2, 3, 4, 5, and 10: find the missing factor 
 
5.	Multiplication facts for 6, 7, 8, and 9: find the missing factor 
 
6.	Multiplication facts up to 10: find the missing factor 
 
7.	Multiplication facts up to 10: select the missing factors 
 
8.	Multiplication facts up to 12: find the missing factor 
 
9.	Multiplication facts up to 12: select the missing factors 
 
Division equations
10.	Division facts up to 10: find the missing number 
 
11.	Division facts up to 10: select the missing numbers 
 
12.	Division facts up to 12: find the missing number 
 
13.	Division facts up to 12: select the missing numbers 
 
Variable equations
14.	Solve for the unknown number: multiplication and division only 
 
Input/output tables
15.	Multiplication input/output tables 
 
16.	Multiplication input/output tables: find the rule 
 
17.	Division input/output tables 
 
18.	Division input/output tables: find the rule 
 
RIT Score: 201–205
Whole Number and Decimal Computations
Add whole numbers
1.	Add two numbers up to seven digits 
 
2.	Add two numbers up to seven digits: word problems 
 
3.	Addition: fill in the missing digits 
 
4.	Add 3 or more numbers up to millions 
 
5.	Choose numbers with a particular sum 
 
Subtract whole numbers
6.	Subtract numbers up to seven digits 
 
7.	Subtract numbers up to seven digits: word problems 
 
8.	Subtraction: fill in the missing digits 
 
9.	Choose numbers with a particular difference 
 
Multiplication facts
10.	Use one multiplication fact to complete another 
 
Multiply 1-digit numbers using models
11.	Multiply 1-digit numbers by 2-digit numbers: choose the area model 
 
12.	Multiply 1-digit numbers by 2-digit numbers using area models 
 
13.	Multiply 1-digit numbers by 3-digit or 4-digit numbers: choose the area model 
 
14.	Multiply 1-digit numbers by 3-digit or 4-digit numbers using area models 
 
Multiply 1-digit numbers
15.	Multiply 1-digit numbers by 2-digit numbers 
 
16.	Multiply 1-digit numbers by multi-digit numbers using partial products 
 
17.	Multiply 1-digit numbers by 3-digit or 4-digit numbers using expanded form 
 
18.	Multiply 1-digit numbers by teen numbers using grids 
 
19.	Multiply 1-digit numbers by teen numbers 
 
20.	Multiply 1-digit numbers by 3-digit or 4-digit numbers 
 
Multiplication and division strategies
21.	Multiply by numbers ending in zeros: find the missing number 
22.	Multiplication patterns over increasing place values: up to thousands 
 
23.	Properties of multiplication 
 
24.	Properties of division 
 
Represent and Solve Problems
Estimate sums
1.	Estimate sums 
 
2.	Estimate sums: word problems 
 
Estimate differences
3.	Estimate differences 
 
4.	Estimate differences: word problems 
 
Estimate products
5.	Estimate products word problems: identify reasonable answers 
 
Multiplication facts
6.	Multiplication facts to 12: find the missing factor 
 
7.	Choose numbers with a particular product 
 
Multiplication word problems
8.	Compare numbers using multiplication: word problems 
 
9.	Multiply 1-digit numbers by 2-digit numbers: word problems 
 
10.	Multiply 1-digit numbers by 3-digit or 4-digit numbers: word problems 
 
11.	Multiply two multiples of ten: word problems 
 
Division facts
12.	Choose numbers with a particular quotient 
 
Number patterns
13.	Multiplication input/output tables 
 
14.	Identify mistakes in number patterns 
 
Fraction Computations
Addition
1.	Add fractions with like denominators: pick the model 
 
2.	Add fractions with like denominators using area models 
 
3.	Add fractions with like denominators using strip models 
 
4.	Add fractions with like denominators using number lines 
 
5.	Add fractions with like denominators 
 
Subtraction
6.	Subtract fractions with like denominators: pick the model 
 
7.	Subtract fractions with like denominators using area models 
 
8.	Subtract fractions with like denominators using strip models 
 
9.	Subtract fractions with like denominators using number lines 
 
10.	Subtract fractions with like denominators 
 
Mixed operations
11.	Add and subtract fractions with like denominators: pick the area model 
 
12.	Add and subtract fractions with like denominators using number lines 
 
13.	Add and subtract fractions with like denominators 
 
RIT Score: 206–210
Whole Number and Decimal Computations
Add and subtract decimals
1.	Add decimal numbers 
 
2.	Subtract decimal numbers 
 
3.	Add and subtract decimals: word problems 
 
4.	Choose decimals with a particular sum or difference 
 
5.	Add 3 or more decimals 
 
6.	Add 3 or more decimals: word problems 
 
Multiply 2-digit numbers using models
7.	Multiply 2-digit numbers by 2-digit numbers: choose the area model 
 
8.	Multiply 2-digit numbers by 2-digit numbers using area models 
 
Multiply 2-digit numbers
9.	Multiply 2-digit numbers by 2-digit numbers using partial products 
 
10.	Multiply a 2-digit number by a 2-digit number: complete the missing steps 
 
11.	Multiply a 2-digit number by a 2-digit number 
 
12.	Inequalities with multiplication 
 
13.	Estimate products: multiply by 2-digit numbers 
 
14.	Estimate products: word problems 
 
15.	Multiply a 2-digit number by a 2-digit number: word problems 
 
Multiplication strategies
16.	Box multiplication 
 
17.	Lattice multiplication 
 
18.	Multiply using the associative and commutative properties 
 
19.	Multiply by 10 or 100 
 
20.	Multiply a two-digit number by a multiple of ten 
 
Divide 2-digit numbers
21.	Divide 2-digit numbers by 1-digit numbers using arrays 
 
22.	Divide 2-digit numbers by 1-digit numbers: complete the table 
 
23.	Divide 2-digit numbers by 1-digit numbers: quotients up to 10 
 
24.	Divide 2-digit numbers by 1-digit numbers using area models 
 
25.	Divide 2-digit numbers by 1-digit numbers 
 
26.	Pick the model that shows a division expression 
 
Divide larger numbers
27.	Divide 3-digit numbers by 1-digit numbers using area models 
 
28.	Divide larger numbers by 1-digit numbers 
 
29.	Divide larger numbers by 1-digit numbers: complete the table 
 
Division strategies
30.	Divide numbers ending in zeros by 1-digit numbers 
 
31.	Divide numbers ending in zeros by 1-digit numbers: complete the sentence 
32.	Divide using partial quotients 
 
33.	Divide using repeated subtraction 
 
34.	Divide using the distributive property 
 
Represent and Solve Problems
Estimate
1.	Estimate quotients 
 
2.	Estimate quotients: word problems 
 
3.	Estimate quotients using compatible numbers: 1-digit divisors 
 
4.	Estimate sums, differences, products, and quotients: word problems 
 
Division word problems
5.	Divide 2-digit numbers by 1-digit numbers: word problems 
 
6.	Divide larger numbers by 1-digit numbers: word problems 
 
Interpret remainders
7.	One-step word problems involving remainders 
 
8.	Divide 2-digit numbers by 1-digit numbers: interpret remainders 
 
9.	Divide larger numbers by 1-digit numbers: interpret remainders 
 
Variable expressions and equations
10.	Write variable expressions 
 
11.	Write variable expressions: word problems 
 
12.	Write equations to represent word problems 
 
Multi-step problems
13.	Multi-step word problems with strip diagrams 
 
14.	Use strip diagrams to represent and solve multi-step word problems 
 
15.	Multi-step addition word problems 
16.	Multi-step word problems involving subtraction 
 
17.	Multi-step word problems involving remainders 
 
18.	Multi-step word problems: identify reasonable answers 
 
Input/output tables
19.	Input/output tables with addition, subtraction, multiplication, and division 
 
Fraction Computations
Addition
1.	Add fractions and mixed numbers using properties 
2.	Add 3 or more fractions with like denominators 
 
3.	Add mixed numbers 
 
Subtraction
4.	Subtract mixed numbers without regrouping 
 
Mixed operations
5.	Compare sums and differences of fractions with like denominators 
 
6.	Break apart fractions and mixed numbers to add or subtract 
7.	Add and subtract mixed numbers with like denominators 
 
8.	Add and subtract fractions with like denominators: complete the equation 
 
Real-world problems
9.	Add and subtract fractions with like denominators: word problems 
 
10.	Add and subtract fractions with like denominators in recipes 
 
RIT Score: 211–214
Whole Number and Decimal Computations
Multiplication
1.	Multiply 2-digit numbers by 3-digit numbers 
 
Division strategies
2.	Adjust quotients 
 
3.	Divide numbers ending in zeros 
 
4.	Divide numbers ending in zeros: word problems 
 
5.	Choose numbers with a particular quotient 
 
6.	Multi-step word problems: multiplicative comparison 
 
7.	Division patterns over increasing place values 
 
Divide by 1-digit numbers
8.	Divide multi-digit numbers by 1-digit numbers 
 
9.	Divide by 1-digit numbers: interpret remainders 
 
Divide by 2-digit numbers
10.	Divide by 2-digit numbers using models 
 
11.	Divide by 2-digit numbers using partial quotients 
 
12.	Divide 2-digit and 3-digit numbers by 2-digit numbers 
 
13.	Divide 2-digit and 3-digit numbers by 2-digit numbers: word problems 
 
14.	Divide 4-digit numbers by 2-digit numbers 
 
15.	Divide 4-digit numbers by 2-digit numbers: word problems 
 
16.	Complete the division sentence: 2-digit divisors 
 
Fraction Computations
Add fractions
1.	Represent addition of fractions with unlike denominators using objects 
2.	Add fractions with unlike denominators using objects 
 
3.	Add fractions with unlike denominators using models 
 
4.	Add 3 or more fractions with unlike denominators 
 
5.	Add 3 or more fractions: word problems 
 
Subtract fractions
6.	Represent subtraction of fractions with unlike denominators using objects 
7.	Subtract fractions with unlike denominators using objects 
8.	Subtract fractions with unlike denominators using models 
 
Add and subtract fractions
9.	Add and subtract fractions with like denominators 
 
10.	Add and subtract fractions with like denominators: word problems 
 
11.	Add and subtract fractions with unlike denominators 
 
12.	Add and subtract fractions with unlike denominators: word problems 
 
13.	Add and subtract fractions in recipes 
 
14.	Complete addition and subtraction sentences with fractions 
 
15.	Compare sums and differences of fractions 
 
16.	Add or subtract three fractions with unlike denominators 
 
Represent and Solve Problems
Whole numbers
1.	Estimate products: multiply by 2-digit numbers 
 
2.	Estimate products: word problems 
 
3.	Estimate quotients 
 
4.	Estimate sums and differences of whole numbers 
 
5.	Estimate sums and differences: word problems 
 
6.	Estimate quotients: 2-digit divisors 
 
7.	Estimate quotients: word problems 
 
Decimals
8.	Estimate sums and differences of decimals using benchmarks 
 
9.	Estimate sums and differences of decimals using rounding 
 
RIT Score: 215–217
Whole Number and Decimal Computations
Division strategies
1.	Divide by a power of ten with decimals: find the missing number 
 
2.	Divide by powers of ten 
 
Divide by whole numbers
3.	Division with decimal quotients 
 
4.	Division with decimal quotients and rounding 
 
5.	Division with decimal quotients: word problems 
 
6.	Divide money amounts: word problems 
 
Multiply decimals
7.	Multiply a decimal by a power of ten 
 
Fraction Computations
Multiply unit fractions
1.	Multiply unit fractions by whole numbers using number lines 
 
2.	Multiply unit fractions by whole numbers 
3.	Multiply unit fractions and whole numbers: sorting 
 
Multiply fractions and whole numbers
4.	Multiply fractions by whole numbers using number lines 
 
5.	Multiply fractions by whole numbers: choose the model 
 
6.	Multiply fractions by whole numbers using models: complete the equation 
 
7.	Multiply fractions by whole numbers using arrays 
 
8.	Multiply fractions and whole numbers: sorting 
 
Divide whole numbers and unit fractions
9.	Divide whole numbers and unit fractions 
 
10.	Divide whole numbers by unit fractions 
 
11.	Divide unit fractions and whole numbers: word problems 
 
Represent and Solve Problems
Multiplication strategies
1.	Multiply by a power of ten with decimals: find the missing number 
 
2.	Multiply a decimal by a one-digit whole number using the distributive property 
 
3.	Properties of multiplication 
 
Multiply decimals by whole numbers
4.	Multiply a decimal by a one-digit whole number 
 
5.	Multiply a decimal by a multi-digit whole number 
 
6.	Multiply decimals and whole numbers: word problems 
 
7.	Multiply money amounts: word problems 
 
8.	Price lists: multiplication 
 
Multiply two decimals
9.	Multiply two decimals: where does the decimal point go? 
 
10.	Multiply two decimals: products up to hundredths 
 
Estimation
11.	Estimate products of decimals 
 
12.	Estimate decimal quotients 
 
Variable equations
13.	Which value makes the equation true? 
 
14.	Represent multi-step problems using equations 
 
Multi-step word problems
15.	Multi-step word problems 
 
16.	Multi-step word problems involving remainders 
 
17.	Multi-step word problems: identify reasonable answers 
 
RIT Score: 218–219
Whole Number and Decimal Computations
1.	Multiply decimals 
 
2.	Divide decimals by whole numbers 
 
3.	Multiply and divide decimals by powers of ten 
 
4.	Multiply and divide decimals: word problems 
 
5.	Division with decimal divisors 
 
6.	Divide decimals 
 
Fraction Computations
Multiply fractions
1.	Multiply fractions and whole numbers 
 
2.	Multiply two fractions using models 
 
3.	Multiply two fractions 
 
4.	Scaling whole numbers by fractions: justify your answer 
 
Divide fractions
5.	Divide whole numbers by unit fractions using models 
 
6.	Reciprocals 
 
7.	Divide whole numbers and unit fractions 
 
8.	Divide fractions 
 
Ratios
9.	Write a ratio: word problems 
 
10.	Write an equivalent ratio 
 
Represent and Solve Problems
Decimals
1.	Divide decimals by whole numbers: word problems 
 
Fractions
2.	Multiply fractions by whole numbers: word problems 
 
3.	Multiply fractions and whole numbers: word problems 
 
4.	Divide fractions by whole numbers in recipes 
 
5.	Divide fractions: word problems 
 
Ratios
6.	Which model represents the ratio? 
 
7.	Write a ratio using a colon 
 
8.	Write a ratio using a fraction 
 
9.	Ratio tables 
 
Tables and graphs
10.	Ratios and rates: complete a table and make a graph 
 
Equations
11.	Write an equation from words 
 
12.	Write a one-step equation: word problems 
 
13.	Model and solve equations using algebra tiles 
 
14.	Write and solve equations that represent diagrams 
 
Inequalities
15.	Graph inequalities on number lines 
 
16.	Write inequalities from number lines 
 
RIT Score: 220–221
Whole Number and Decimal Computations
Add integers
1.	Add integers using counters 
 
2.	Add two negative integers using number lines 
 
3.	Add two integers with different signs using number lines 
 
4.	Add integers 
 
5.	Add three or more integers 
 
Subtract integers
6.	Subtract integers using counters 
 
7.	Subtract integers using number lines 
 
8.	Subtract integers 
 
Add and subtract integers
9.	Add and subtract integers: find the sign 
 
10.	Add and subtract integers: word problems 
 
11.	Add and subtract integers: input/output tables 
 
Multiply integers
12.	Understand multiplying by a negative integer using a number line 
 
13.	Multiply integers: find the sign 
 
14.	Multiply integers 
 
Divide integers
15.	Divide integers: find the sign 
 
16.	Divide integers 
 
Mixed integer operations
17.	Add, subtract, multiply, or divide two integers 
 
Percents
18.	Find the total given a part and a percent 
 
19.	Percents of numbers and money amounts 
 
20.	Percents of numbers: fractional and decimal percents 
 
21.	Find what percent one number is of another 
 
22.	Solve percent problems 
 
Fraction Computations
Multiply mixed numbers
1.	Multiply mixed numbers 
 
2.	Multiply three or more mixed numbers, fractions, and/or whole numbers 
 
3.	Scaling by fractions and mixed numbers 
 
4.	Estimate products of mixed numbers 
 
Divide fractions and mixed numbers
5.	Divide fractions and mixed numbers 
 
Represent and Solve Problems
Solve equations
1.	Solve one-step equations with whole numbers 
 
2.	Solve one-step addition and subtraction equations with decimals and fractions 
 
3.	Solve one-step multiplication and division equations with decimals and fractions 
 
4.	Solve one-step addition and subtraction equations and graph their solutions 
 
5.	Solve one-step multiplication and division equations and graph their solutions 
 
Equation word problems
6.	Solve one-step addition and subtraction equations: word problems 
 
7.	Solve one-step multiplication and division equations: word problems 
 
8.	Solve one-step equations: word problems 
 
Inequalities
9.	Solve one-step inequalities 
 
10.	One-step inequalities: word problems 
 
11.	Graph solutions to one-step inequalities 
 
12.	Solve and graph one-step addition and subtraction inequalities 
 
13.	Solve and graph one-step multiplication and division inequalities with positive numbers 
 
14.	Solve and graph one-step multiplication and division inequalities with rational numbers 
 
Multiply and divde mixed numbers
15.	Multiply mixed numbers: word problems 
 
16.	Divide fractions and mixed numbers: word problems 
 
Proportions
17.	Do the ratios form a proportion? 
 
Percents
18.	Percents of numbers: word problems 
 
19.	Find what percent one number is of another: word problems 
 
20.	Solve percent word problems 
 
21.	Solve percent problems using strip models 
 
22.	Solve percent problems using grid models 
 
Independent and dependent variables
23.	Identify independent and dependent variables: word problems 
 
24.	Identify independent and dependent variables in tables and graphs 
 
Tables and graphs
25.	Complete a table for a two-variable relationship 
 
26.	Identify the graph of an equation 
 
27.	Graph a relationship between two variables 
 
28.	Complete a table and make a graph: word problems 
 
29.	Complete a table and graph a two-variable equation 
 
Two-variable equations
30.	Relationships between two variables: word problems 
 
31.	Write a two-variable equation 
 
32.	Write an equation from a graph using a table 
 
RIT Score: 222+
Whole Number and Decimal Computations
Add and subtract integers
1.	Add integers using counters 
 
2.	Add integers 
 
3.	Subtract integers using counters 
 
4.	Subtract integers 
 
5.	Add and subtract integers 
 
6.	Complete addition and subtraction equations with integers 
 
Multiply and divide integers
7.	Multiply integers 
 
8.	Equal quotients of integers 
 
9.	Divide integers 
 
10.	Multiply and divide integers 
 
11.	Complete multiplication and division equations with integers 
 
Operations with integers
12.	Add, subtract, multiply, and divide integers 
 
Operations with decimals
13.	Add and subtract decimals 
 
14.	Multiply decimals 
 
15.	Divide decimals 
 
16.	Add and subtract positive and negative decimals 
 
17.	Multiply and divide positive and negative decimals 
 
Fraction Computations
Addition and subtraction
1.	Add and subtract fractions 
 
2.	Add and subtract mixed numbers 
 
3.	Add and subtract positive and negative fractions 
 
Multiplication and division
4.	Multiply fractions and whole numbers 
 
5.	Multiply fractions 
 
6.	Multiply mixed numbers 
 
7.	Divide fractions 
 
8.	Divide mixed numbers 
 
9.	Multiply and divide positive and negative fractions 
 
Order of operations
10.	Evaluate numerical expressions involving fractions 
 
Represent and Solve Problems
Fraction operations
1.	Add and subtract fractions: word problems 
 
2.	Add and subtract mixed numbers: word problems 
 
3.	Maps with fractional distances 
 
4.	Multiply fractions and mixed numbers: word problems 
 
5.	Divide fractions and mixed numbers: word problems 
 
6.	Add, subtract, multiply, and divide fractions and mixed numbers: word problems 
 
Decimal operations
7.	Add and subtract decimals: word problems 
 
8.	Maps with decimal distances 
 
9.	Multiply decimals and whole numbers: word problems 
 
10.	Divide decimals by whole numbers: word problems 
 
11.	Add, subtract, multiply, and divide decimals: word problems 
 
12.	Add, subtract, multiply, and divide money amounts: word problems 
 
13.	Multi-step word problems with positive rational numbers 
 
Integer operations
14.	Add and subtract integers: word problems 
 
Order of operations
15.	Evaluate numerical expressions involving integers 
 
16.	Evaluate numerical expressions involving decimals 
 
Ratios
17.	Compare ratios: word problems 
 
Rates
18.	Unit rates 
 
19.	Calculate unit rates with fractions 
 
20.	Find the constant of proportionality from a table 
 
21.	Unit prices 
 
22.	Unit prices with unit conversions 
 
Populations
23.	Estimate population size using proportions 
 
24.	Identify representative, random, and biased samples 
 
Percents
25.	Percents of numbers: word problems 
 
26.	Solve percent equations: word problems 
 
Percent of change
27.	Percent of change 
 
28.	Percent of change: word problems 
 
29.	Percent of change: find the original amount word problems 
 
One-variable equations
30.	Write an equation from words 
 
31.	Model and solve equations using algebra tiles 
 
32.	Solve two-step equations: word problems 
 
33.	Write and solve equations that represent diagrams 
 
34.	Solve two-step equations without parentheses 
 
35.	Solve equations involving like terms 
 
36.	Solve equations: complete the solution 
 
One-variable inequalities
37.	Write inequalities from number lines 
 
38.	Solve two-step inequalities 
 
39.	Graph solutions to two-step inequalities 
 
Independent and dependent variables
40.	Identify independent and dependent variables 
 
Proportional relationships
41.	Identify proportional relationships by graphing 
 
42.	Identify proportional relationships from tables 
 
43.	Write equations for proportional relationships from tables 
 
44.	Write equations for proportional relationships from graphs 
 
45.	Interpret graphs of proportional relationships 
 
Two-variable equations
46.	Evaluate two-variable equations: word problems 
 
47.	Write a two-variable equation 
 
48.	Write an equation from a graph using a table 
 
49.	Write a linear equation from a graph 
 
50.	Find a value using two-variable equations 
 
Tables and graphs
51.	Complete a table for a two-variable relationship 
 
52.	Identify the graph of an equation 
 
53.	Graph a two-variable equation 
 
54.	Interpret a graph: word problems 
 
Financial literacy
55.	Price lists 
 
56.	Unit prices: find the total price 
 
57.	Percent of a number: tax, discount, and more 
 
58.	Which is the better coupon? 
 
59.	Find the percent: tax, discount, and more 
 
60.	Sale prices: find the original price 
 
61.	Multi-step problems with percents 
 
62.	Estimate tips 
 
Probability
63.	Experimental probability 
 
64.	Make predictions using experimental probability 
 
65.	Make predictions using theoretical probability 
 
Geometry and Measurement
RIT Score: Less than 168
Two-Dimensional Shapes & Three-Dimensional Solids
Two-dimensional shapes
1.	Name the two-dimensional shape 
 
2.	Circles 
 
3.	Triangles 
 
4.	Squares 
 
5.	Rectangles 
 
6.	Select circles, triangles, squares, and rectangles 
Three-dimensional shapes
7.	Name the three-dimensional shape 
 
8.	Spheres 
 
9.	Cubes 
 
10.	Cones 
 
11.	Cylinders 
 
12.	Select three-dimensional shapes 
 
Sides and corners
13.	Curved parts 
 
14.	Count corners 
 
15.	Square corners 
 
16.	Count sides 
 
17.	Equal sides 
 
18.	Count sides and corners 
 
19.	Compare sides and corners 
 
Classify and sort shapes
20.	Classify and sort by shape 
 
21.	Flat and solid shapes 
 
Solve Problems Involving Measurement
1.	Long and short 
 
2.	Tall and short 
 
3.	Light and heavy 
 
4.	Holds more or less 
 
RIT Score: 168–175
Two-Dimensional Shapes & Three-Dimensional Solids
Two-dimensional figures
1.	Select two-dimensional shapes 
 
2.	Name the two-dimensional shape 
 
3.	Rhombuses 
 
4.	Count sides and corners 
 
5.	Compare sides and corners 
 
Three-dimensional figures
6.	Select three-dimensional shapes 
 
7.	Name the three-dimensional shape 
 
8.	Cubes and rectangular prisms 
 
9.	Count vertices, edges, and faces 
 
10.	Compare vertices, edges, and faces 
 
11.	Identify shapes traced from solids 
 
12.	Identify faces of three-dimensional shapes 
 
Two- and three-dimensional figures
13.	Two-dimensional and three-dimensional shapes 
 
Solve Problems Involving Measurement
Measure length
1.	Measure length with objects 
 
2.	Build cube trains to measure length 
 
3.	Measure using an inch ruler 
 
4.	Measure using a centimeter ruler 
 
Measurement word problems
5.	Customary units of length: word problems 
 
6.	Metric units of length: word problems 
 
Time
7.	Match digital clocks and times 
 
8.	Match analog clocks and times: to the half hour 
 
9.	Match analog and digital clocks: to the half hour 
 
10.	Read clocks and write times 
 
RIT Score: 176–182
Two-Dimensional Shapes & Three-Dimensional Solids
1.	Name polygons: up to 12 sides 
 
2.	Select two-dimensional shapes 
 
3.	Count sides and vertices 
 
4.	Compose two-dimensional shapes 
 
Solve Problems Involving Measurement
Length
1.	Measure using an inch ruler 
 
2.	Measure using a centimeter ruler 
 
3.	Which customary unit of length is appropriate: inches or feet? 
 
4.	Which customary unit of length is appropriate: inches, feet, or yards? 
 
5.	Which metric unit of length is appropriate? 
 
Time
6.	Match analog clocks and times to the minute 
 
7.	Match analog and digital clocks to the minute 
 
8.	Read analog clocks and write times to the minute 
 
9.	A.M. or P.M. 
 
RIT Score: 183–188
Two-Dimensional Shapes & Three-Dimensional Solids
1.	Select three-dimensional shapes 
 
Solve Problems Involving Measurement
Measurement word problems
1.	Customary units of length: word problems 
 
2.	Metric units of length: word problems 
 
Area
3.	Area 
 
4.	Select figures with a given area 
 
5.	Create rectangles with a given area 
6.	Tile a rectangle and find the area 
 
7.	Tile a rectangle with squares 
 
Time
8.	Compare clocks to the minute 
 
9.	Time patterns to the minute 
 
RIT Score: 189–194
Two-Dimensional Shapes & Three-Dimensional Solids
Two-dimensional figures
1.	Identify polygons: up to 12 sides 
 
2.	Count and compare sides and vertices 
 
Three-dimensional figures
3.	Identify three-dimensional shapes 
 
Solve Problems Involving Measurement
Time
1.	Find the end time 
 
2.	Time patterns 
 
Measurement
3.	Which customary unit of weight is appropriate? 
 
4.	Which customary unit of volume is appropriate? 
 
5.	Which metric unit of volume is appropriate? 
 
6.	Choose the appropriate measuring tool 
 
Perimeter
7.	Perimeter of rectangles 
 
RIT Score: 195–200
Two-Dimensional Shapes & Three-Dimensional Solids
Quadrilaterals
1.	Classify squares, rectangles, rhombuses, parallelograms, and trapezoids 
 
2.	Identify parallelograms 
 
3.	Identify trapezoids 
 
4.	Identify rectangles 
 
5.	Identify rhombuses 
 
Attributes
6.	Parallel sides in quadrilaterals 
 
Draw quadrilaterals
7.	Draw squares, rectangles, rhombuses, parallelograms, and trapezoids 
 
Solve Problems Involving Measurement
Area
1.	Find the area of rectangles and squares 
 
2.	Find the missing side length of a rectangle 
 
3.	Find the area of rectangles with missing unit squares 
 
4.	Find the area of rectangles: word problems 
 
Perimeter
5.	Perimeter of rectilinear shapes 
 
6.	Perimeter of polygons 
 
7.	Perimeter: find the missing side length 
 
8.	Perimeter: word problems 
 
RIT Score: 201–205
Two-Dimensional Shapes & Three-Dimensional Solids
Points, lines, and angles
1.	Points, lines, line segments, rays, and angles 
 
Triangles
2.	Acute, obtuse, and right triangles 
 
3.	Scalene, isosceles, and equilateral triangles 
 
4.	Classify triangles 
Quadrilaterals
5.	Identify parallelograms 
 
6.	Identify trapezoids 
 
7.	Identify rectangles 
 
8.	Identify rhombuses 
 
9.	Parallel sides in quadrilaterals 
 
10.	Classify quadrilaterals 
 
Symmetry
11.	Identify lines of symmetry 
 
Solve Problems Involving Measurement
Perimeter
1.	Perimeter: find the missing side length 
 
2.	Perimeter: word problems 
 
Customary units
3.	Compare customary units of length 
 
4.	Compare customary units of weight 
 
5.	Compare customary units of volume 
 
6.	Which customary unit is appropriate? 
 
7.	Compare customary units by multiplying 
 
8.	Relate customary units of length 
 
9.	Relate customary units of weight 
 
10.	Relate customary units of volume 
 
11.	Customary conversion tables 
 
Metric units
12.	Compare metric units of length 
 
13.	Compare metric units of mass and volume 
 
14.	Which metric unit is appropriate? 
 
15.	Relate metric units of length 
 
16.	Relate metric units of mass and volume 
 
17.	Metric conversion tables 
 
Measurement word problems
18.	Measurement word problems 
 
Time
19.	Compare units of time 
 
20.	Convert time units 
 
21.	Elapsed time 
 
22.	Elapsed time: word problems 
 
23.	Time patterns 
 
Money
24.	Count coins and bills word problems - up to $20 bill 
 
25.	Compare money amounts 
 
26.	Round money amounts 
 
27.	Add and subtract money amounts 
 
28.	Find the change, price, or amount paid 
 
RIT Score: 206–210
Two-Dimensional Shapes & Three-Dimensional Solids
Lines
1.	Identify parallel, perpendicular, and intersecting lines 
 
2.	Parallel, perpendicular, and intersecting lines 
 
Angles
3.	Acute, right, obtuse, and straight angles 
 
4.	Angles of 90, 180, 270, and 360 degrees 
 
Symmetry
5.	Draw lines of symmetry 
 
6.	Count lines of symmetry 
 
Quadrilaterals
7.	Pick all the names for a quadrilateral 
 
8.	Identify relationships between quadrilaterals 
 
9.	Sides and angles of quadrilaterals 
 
Solve Problems Involving Measurement
Area
1.	Create rectangles with a given area 
 
2.	Area: word problems 
 
3.	Area of complex figures 
 
Area and perimeter
4.	Understanding area and perimeter of rectangles 
 
5.	Relationship between area and perimeter 
 
6.	Area and perimeter: word problems 
 
7.	Rectangles: relationship between perimeter and area word problems 
 
8.	Use area and perimeter to determine cost 
 
Angles
9.	Use a protractor to measure angles 
 
10.	Angle measures: word problems 
 
11.	Adjacent angles 
 
Customary units
12.	Compare and convert customary units 
 
13.	Convert mixed customary units 
 
14.	Add and subtract mixed customary units 
 
Metric units
15.	Compare and convert metric units 
 
16.	Convert mixed metric units 
 
17.	Add and subtract mixed metric units 
 
Time
18.	Fractions of time units 
 
19.	Convert mixed time units 
 
20.	Add and subtract mixed time units 
 
21.	Find start and end times: multi-step word problems 
 
Money
22.	Multi-step word problems with money 
 
23.	Multi-step word problems with money: addition and subtraction only 
 
24.	Multiply and divide money amounts 
 
25.	Price lists with addition and subtraction 
 
RIT Score: 211–214
Two-Dimensional Shapes & Three-Dimensional Solids
Polygons
1.	Regular and irregular polygons 
 
2.	Properties of polygons 
 
Quadrilaterals
3.	Parallel sides in quadrilaterals 
 
4.	Identify parallelograms 
 
5.	Identify trapezoids 
 
6.	Identify rectangles 
 
7.	Identify rhombuses 
 
8.	Classify quadrilaterals 
 
9.	Describe relationships among quadrilaterals 
 
10.	Identify the relationships between quadrilaterals 
 
Solve Problems Involving Measurement
Perimeter
1.	Perimeter with whole number side lengths 
 
2.	Perimeter of figures on grids 
 
Area
3.	Area of squares and rectangles 
 
Volume
4.	Volume of rectangular prisms made of unit cubes 
 
5.	Volume of rectangular prisms made of unit cubes II 
 
Customary units
6.	Compare and convert customary units of length 
 
7.	Compare and convert customary units of weight 
 
8.	Compare and convert customary units of volume 
 
9.	Compare and convert customary units 
 
10.	Conversion tables - customary units 
 
11.	Convert mixed customary units 
 
Metric units
12.	Compare and convert metric units of length 
 
13.	Compare and convert metric units of mass 
 
14.	Compare and convert metric units of volume 
 
15.	Compare and convert metric units 
 
16.	Conversion tables - metric units 
 
17.	Convert metric mixed units 
 
RIT Score: 215–217
Two-Dimensional Shapes & Three-Dimensional Solids
Two-dimensional figures
1.	Sort polygons into Venn diagrams 
 
Coordinate plane
2.	Use a rule to complete a table and a graph 
 
3.	Graph triangles and quadrilaterals 
 
4.	Graph points from a table 
 
5.	Coordinate planes as maps 
 
6.	Graph a two-variable relationship 
 
Solve Problems Involving Measurement
Area and perimeter
1.	Area of compound figures 
 
2.	Area of figures on grids 
 
3.	Area and perimeter: word problems 
 
Volume
4.	Volume of irregular figures made of unit cubes 
 
5.	Volume of cubes and rectangular prisms 
 
6.	Volume of rectangular prisms 
 
7.	Volume of cubes 
 
8.	Volume of cubes and rectangular prisms with decimal side lengths 
 
9.	Volume of cubes and rectangular prisms: word problems 
 
10.	Volume of rectangular prisms made of unit cubes: word problems 
 
Customary units
11.	Compare customary units by multiplying 
 
12.	Add and subtract mixed customary units 
 
13.	Multi-step problems with customary unit conversions 
 
Metric units
14.	Convert metric units involving decimals 
 
15.	Add and subtract metric mixed units 
 
16.	Multi-step problems with metric unit conversions 
 
Customary and metric units
17.	Multi-step problems with customary or metric unit conversions 
 
RIT Score: 218–219
Two-Dimensional Shapes & Three-Dimensional Solids
Triangles
1.	Find missing angles in triangles 
 
Coordinate plane
2.	Objects on a coordinate plane 
 
3.	Graph points on a coordinate plane 
 
Solve Problems Involving Measurement
Customary units
1.	Convert and compare customary units 
 
2.	Convert, compare, add, and subtract mixed customary units 
 
3.	Customary unit conversions involving fractions and mixed numbers 
 
4.	Unit prices with customary unit conversions 
 
Metric units
5.	Convert and compare metric units 
 
Customary and metric units
6.	Convert metric and customary units using conversion factors 
7.	Convert customary and metric units using proportions 
 
Area
8.	Area of rectangles and squares 
 
9.	Area of parallelograms 
 
10.	Area of triangles 
 
11.	Area of trapezoids 
 
12.	Area of quadrilaterals 
 
13.	Area of compound figures 
 
RIT Score: 220–221
Two-Dimensional Shapes & Three-Dimensional Solids
Triangles
1.	Relationship between sides and angles in a triangle 
 
2.	Triangle inequality 
 
3.	Find missing angles in special triangles 
 
Coordinate plane
4.	Quadrants 
 
5.	Coordinate planes as maps 
 
Solve Problems Involving Measurement
Area
1.	Area of compound figures with triangles 
 
2.	Area between two rectangles 
 
3.	Area between two triangles 
 
4.	Area of quadrilaterals and triangles: word problems 
 
Volume
5.	Volume of cubes and rectangular prisms 
 
6.	Volume of cubes and rectangular prisms: word problems 
 
RIT Score: 222+
Solve Problems Involving Measurement
Angles
1.	Find missing angles in triangles 
 
2.	Find missing angles in triangles using ratios 
 
3.	Find missing angles in quadrilaterals I 
 
4.	Find missing angles in quadrilaterals II 
 
5.	Find measures of complementary, supplementary, vertical, and adjacent angles 
 
Customary and metric units
6.	Convert between customary and metric systems 
 
Scale drawings
7.	Scale drawings: word problems 
 
8.	Scale drawings: scale factor word problems 
 
Similar figures
9.	Identify similar figures 
 
10.	Side lengths and angle measures of similar figures 
 
11.	Similar figures and indirect measurement 
 
Volume
12.	Volume of cubes and rectangular prisms: word problems 
 
13.	Volume of cubes and prisms 
 
14.	Volume of pyramids 
 
Area
15.	Area of compound figures with triangles 
 
16.	Area of compound figures with triangles, semicircles, and quarter circles 
 
Nets and surface area
17.	Nets of prisms and pyramids 
 
18.	Surface area of cubes and prisms 
 
19.	Surface area of pyramids 
 
Data Analysis and Money
RIT Score: Less than 168
Organizing, Displaying, and Interpreting Data
Classify and sort
1.	Classify shapes by color 
 
2.	Classify and sort by color 
 
3.	Classify and sort by shape 
 
4.	Classify and sort 
 
5.	Classify, sort, and count 
 
Venn diagrams
6.	Sort shapes into a Venn diagram 
 
Picture graphs
7.	Which picture graph is correct? 
 
8.	Create picture graphs 
 
9.	Interpret picture graphs 
 
RIT Score: 168–175
Organizing, Displaying, and Interpreting Data
Picture graphs
1.	Which picture graph is correct? 
 
2.	Interpret picture graphs 
 
Tally charts
3.	Which tally chart is correct? 
 
4.	Interpret tally charts 
 
Bar graphs
5.	Which bar graph is correct? 
 
6.	Interpret bar graphs I 
 
7.	Interpret bar graphs II 
 
Tables
8.	Record data in tables 
 
9.	Interpret data in tables 
 
RIT Score: 176–182
Organizing, Displaying, and Interpreting Data
Pictographs
1.	Create picture graphs 
 
2.	Interpret picture graphs 
 
Bar graphs
3.	Create bar graphs 
 
4.	Interpret bar graphs I 
 
5.	Which bar graph is correct? 
 
Monetary Transactions
Identify coins
1.	Names and values of common coins 
 
2.	Names and values of all coins 
 
Count money
3.	Count money - pennies, nickels, and dimes only 
 
4.	Count money up to $1 
 
5.	Count money up to $5 
 
RIT Score: 183–188
Organizing, Displaying, and Interpreting Data
Pictographs
1.	Create scaled picture graphs 
 
2.	Interpret scaled picture graphs 
 
Bar graphs
3.	Interpret bar graphs II 
 
Monetary Transactions
Ways to make an amount
1.	Equivalent amounts of money up to $1 
 
2.	Exchanging money 
 
3.	How much more to make a dollar? 
 
Compare money
4.	Exchanging money II 
 
5.	Do you have enough money? - up to $1 
 
Write dollar amounts
6.	Write dollar amounts - up to $1 
 
RIT Score: 189–194
Organizing, Displaying, and Interpreting Data
Tables
1.	Interpret tally charts 
 
2.	Interpret data in tables 
 
Pictographs
3.	Interpret scaled picture graphs 
 
4.	Create scaled picture graphs 
 
Monetary Transactions
1.	Count coins and bills - up to $5 bill 
 
2.	Which picture shows more? 
 
RIT Score: 195–200
Organizing, Displaying, and Interpreting Data
Line plots
1.	Interpret line plots 
 
2.	Create line plots 
 
Bar graphs
3.	Interpret scaled bar graphs 
 
4.	Use bar graphs to solve problems 
 
5.	Create scaled bar graphs 
 
Monetary Transactions
1.	Count coins and bills word problems - up to $5 bill 
 
2.	Purchases - do you have enough money - up to $10 
 
RIT Score: 201–205
Organizing, Displaying, and Interpreting Data
Frequency tables
1.	Create frequency tables with numerical data 
 
2.	Interpret frequency tables 
 
3.	Interpret frequency tables with fractions: one-step problems 
 
4.	Interpret frequency tables with decimals: one-step problems 
 
Line plots
5.	Create line plots with whole numbers 
 
6.	Interpret line plots 
 
RIT Score: 206–210
Organizing, Displaying, and Interpreting Data
Frequency tables
1.	Interpret frequency tables with whole numbers: two-step problems 
 
2.	Interpret frequency tables with decimals: two-step problems 
 
Stem-and-leaf plots
3.	Create stem-and-leaf plots 
 
4.	Interpret stem-and-leaf plots 
 
Line plots
5.	Create and interpret line plots with fractions 
 
6.	Create line plots with fractions 
 
RIT Score: 211–214
Organizing, Displaying, and Interpreting Data
Bar graphs
1.	Interpret bar graphs 
 
2.	Create bar graphs 
 
Line plots
3.	Interpret line plots with whole numbers 
 
Stem-and-leaf plots
4.	Create stem-and-leaf plots 
 
5.	Interpret stem-and-leaf plots 
 
Scatter plots
6.	Create scatter plots 
 
RIT Score: 215–217
Organizing, Displaying, and Interpreting Data
Line plots
1.	Create line plots with fractions 
 
2.	Create and interpret line plots with fractions 
 
Frequency charts
3.	Create frequency tables 
 
4.	Interpret frequency tables: multi-step problems 
 
5.	Interpret frequency tables: one-step problems 
 
Scatter plots
6.	Interpret scatter plots 
 
7.	Predictions and trends in scatter plots 
 
Bar graphs
8.	Interpret bar graphs: multi-step problems 
 
RIT Score: 218–219
Organizing, Displaying, and Interpreting Data
Line plots
1.	Create line plots 
 
2.	Interpret line plots 
 
3.	Create and interpret line plots with fractions 
 
Stem-and-leaf plots
4.	Create stem-and-leaf plots 
 
5.	Interpret stem-and-leaf plots 
 
Histograms
6.	Create histograms 
 
7.	Interpret histograms 
 
Frequency tables
8.	Create frequency tables 
 
RIT Score: 220–221
Organizing, Displaying, and Interpreting Data
Box plots
1.	Box plots 
 
Bar graphs
2.	Create percent bar graphs 
 
Categorical data
3.	Interpret circle graphs 
 
4.	Interpret categorical data 
 
5.	Create relative frequency tables 
 
RIT Score: 222+
Organizing, Displaying, and Interpreting Data
Probability
1.	Compound events: find the number of outcomes 
 
Bar graphs
2.	Fractions: word problems with graphs and tables 
 
3.	Interpret bar graphs 
 
Line plots
4.	Interpret line plots 
 
5.	Create and interpret line plots with fractions 
 
Circle graphs
6.	Interpret circle graphs 
 
