Numerical Representations and Relationships
RIT Score: Less than 145
Whole Numbers in the Place Value System
Numbers up to 5
1.	Count dots - 0 to 5 
 
2.	One more - up to 5 
 
Numbers up to 10
3.	Identify numbers - up to 10 
 
4.	Count dots - up to 10 
 
5.	Names of numbers - up to 10 
 
6.	Count to fill a ten frame 
 
7.	Count out stickers - up to 10 
 
8.	Show numbers with cubes - up to 10 
 
9.	Show numbers on ten frames - up to 10 
 
10.	Represent numbers - up to 10 
 
11.	One more - up to 10 
 
Compare sets
12.	Fewer and more - compare by matching 
 
13.	Fewer and more - compare by counting 
 
14.	Fewer, more, and same 
 
Number Patterns and Parts: Counting and Fractions
Count with objects
1.	Learn to count to 10 
 
2.	Count pictures - up to 10 
 
3.	Count shapes in rows - up to 10 
 
4.	Count scattered shapes - up to 10 
 
5.	Count shapes in rings - up to 10 
 
6.	Count blocks - up to 10 
 
7.	Count cubes - up to 10 
 
8.	Count on ten frames - up to 10 
 
9.	Tally marks - up to 10 
 
10.	Count money - pennies only 
 
Count without objects
11.	Count up to find the next number - up to 10 
 
12.	Count up and down to find the next number - up to 10 
 
13.	Count forward - up to 10 
 
14.	Count forward and backward - up to 10 
 
Skip-count by tens
15.	Skip-count by tens 
 
16.	Count groups of ten 
 
RIT Score: 146–158
Whole Numbers in the Place Value System
Numbers up to 10
1.	Put together numbers using cubes - sums up to 5 
 
2.	Put together numbers using cubes - sums up to 10 
 
3.	Decompose a number up to 10 
 
Numbers up to 20
4.	Identify numbers - up to 20 
 
5.	Count dots - 0 to 20 
 
6.	Names of numbers - up to 20 
 
7.	Show numbers on ten frames - up to 20 
 
8.	Represent numbers - up to 20 
 
9.	Before, after, and between - up to 20 
 
Compare sets
10.	Fewer and more - compare in a mixed group 
 
11.	Fewer and more - up to 20 
 
Compare numbers
12.	Compare two numbers - up to 10 
 
13.	Compare numbers up to 20 
 
14.	Greater than, less than, or equal to 
 
Number Patterns and Parts: Counting and Fractions
Count to 20 with objects
1.	Count pictures - up to 20 
 
2.	Count on ten frames - up to 20 
 
3.	Count blocks - up to 20 
 
4.	Tally marks - up to 20 
 
Count to 20 without objects
5.	Count up to find the next number - up to 20 
 
6.	Count up and down to find the next number - up to 20 
 
7.	Count forward - up to 20 
 
8.	Count forward and backward - up to 20 
 
Count to 30 with objects
9.	Count on ten frames - up to 30 
 
10.	Count blocks - up to 30 
 
Count to 100 with objects
11.	Count pictures - up to 100 
 
12.	Count blocks - up to 100 
 
Count by ones or tens
13.	One or ten more or less 
14.	Count on the hundred chart 
 
RIT Score: 159–167
Whole Numbers in the Place Value System
Numbers up to 20
1.	Build and break apart teen numbers 
 
2.	Counting review - up to 20 
 
3.	Place value models up to 20 
 
Numbers up to 100
4.	Count on ten frames - up to 40 
 
5.	Build and break apart two-digit numbers - with models 
 
6.	Number lines - up to 100 
 
7.	Place value models for two-digit numbers 
 
8.	Build and break apart multiples of ten 
 
9.	Build and break apart two-digit numbers - without models 
 
Compare sets
10.	Comparing: more or fewer? 
 
Compare numbers
11.	Compare numbers up to 10 using words 
 
12.	Compare numbers up to 10 using symbols 
 
Number Patterns and Parts: Counting and Fractions
Number patterns
1.	Count objects to 100 
 
2.	Count forward - up to 100 
 
3.	Ten more or less 
 
4.	Add and subtract ten 
 
5.	Count on the hundred chart 
 
Skip-counting
6.	Skip-count by twos, fives, and tens 
 
RIT Score: 168–175
Whole Numbers in the Place Value System
Numbers up to 120
1.	Number lines - up to 120 
 
2.	Write numbers as hundreds, tens, and ones - up to 120 
 
3.	Place value models up to 120 
 
4.	Writing numbers up to 120 in expanded form 
 
Regroup tens and ones
5.	Regroup tens and ones - ways to make a number 
 
6.	Regroup tens and ones 
 
Compare numbers
7.	Compare numbers up to 100 using symbols 
 
8.	Compare numbers up to 100 using words 
 
9.	Compare numbers up to 120 using words 
Order numbers
10.	Put numbers in order - up to 100 
 
11.	Put numbers in order - up to 120 
 
Number Patterns and Parts: Counting and Fractions
Number patterns
1.	Sequences - count up and down by 1, 2, 5, and 10 
 
2.	Count down to find the next number - up to 120 
 
3.	Count backward - up to 100 
 
4.	Count up to find the next number - up to 120 
 
5.	One more or less - up to 120 
6.	Ten more or less - up to 120 
 
7.	Count on a number chart - up to 120 
 
Skip-counting
8.	Skip-count by tens - up to 120 
 
9.	Skip-count by twos, fives, and tens - up to 120 
 
RIT Score: 176–182
Whole Numbers in the Place Value System
Number lines
1.	Number lines - up to 100 
 
2.	Number lines - up to 1,000 
 
Compare and order
3.	Comparing numbers up to 100 
 
4.	Put numbers up to 100 in order 
 
5.	Comparing numbers up to 1,000 
 
6.	Put numbers up to 1,000 in order 
 
Number names
7.	Spell word names for numbers up to 20 
 
8.	Writing numbers up to 100 in words - convert words to digits 
 
9.	Writing numbers up to 100 in words - convert digits to words 
 
10.	Writing numbers up to 1,000 in words - convert words to digits 
 
11.	Writing numbers up to 1,000 in words - convert digits to words 
 
Place value
12.	Place value models - tens and ones 
 
13.	Place value models - up to hundreds 
 
14.	Identify a digit up to the hundreds place 
 
15.	Value of a digit - tens and ones 
 
16.	Value of a digit - up to hundreds 
 
17.	Convert to/from a number - tens and ones 
 
18.	Convert to/from a number - up to hundreds 
 
Regroup tens and ones
19.	Regroup tens and ones - ways to make a number 
 
20.	Regroup tens and ones 
 
Number Patterns and Parts: Counting and Fractions
1.	Equal parts 
 
2.	Make halves 
 
3.	Make fourths 
 
RIT Score: 183–188
Whole Numbers in the Place Value System
Number lines
1.	Fill in numbers on number lines - up to 1,200 
 
Compare and order
2.	Comparing numbers up to 1,200 
 
3.	Put numbers up to 1,200 in order 
Number names
4.	Writing numbers up to to 1,200 in words 
 
Place value
5.	Place value models - up to 1,200 
 
6.	Value of a digit - up to thousands 
 
7.	Convert between place values - ones and hundreds 
 
8.	Convert to/from a number - up to 1,200 
 
9.	Convert from expanded form - up to hundreds 
 
Number Patterns and Parts: Counting and Fractions
1.	Make halves, fourths, and eighths 
 
2.	Make eighths 
 
RIT Score: 189–194
Whole Numbers in the Place Value System
Compare and order
1.	Compare numbers up to 100,000 
 
2.	Which number is greatest/least? 
 
3.	Order numbers up to 100,000 
 
Place value
4.	Place value models up to thousands 
 
5.	Value of a digit up to ten thousands 
 
6.	Convert between place values 
 
Rounding
7.	Round to the greatest place value 
 
8.	Round using a number line 
 
Number Patterns and Parts: Counting and Fractions
Even or odd numbers
1.	Even or odd 
 
Understand fractions
2.	Understand fractions: fraction bars 
 
3.	Understand fractions: area models 
 
Show fractions
4.	Show fractions: fraction bars 
 
5.	Show fractions: area models 
 
Match fractions to models
6.	Match fractions to models: halves, thirds, and fourths 
 
7.	Match unit fractions to models 
 
8.	Match fractions to models 
 
Fractions of number lines
9.	Fractions of number lines: unit fractions 
 
10.	Fractions of number lines: halves, fourths, and eighths 
 
11.	Fractions of number lines 
 
Graph fractions on number lines
12.	Graph unit fractions on number lines 
 
13.	Graph fractions on number lines 
 
RIT Score: 195+
Whole Numbers in the Place Value System
1.	Convert to/from a number 
 
2.	Convert from expanded form 
 
3.	Convert between standard and expanded form 
 
Number Patterns and Parts: Counting and Fractions
Equivalent fractions
1.	Find equivalent fractions using area models: one model 
 
2.	Identify equivalent fractions on number lines 
 
3.	Graph equivalent fractions on number lines 
 
4.	Graph fractions equivalent to 1 on number lines 
 
Compare fractions using models
5.	Compare fractions using models 
 
6.	Compare fractions using number lines 
 
7.	Graph and compare fractions with like denominators on number lines 
 
8.	Graph and compare fractions with like numerators on number lines 
 
9.	Graph and compare fractions on number lines 
 
Compare fractions
10.	Compare fractions 
 
11.	Compare fractions in recipes 
 
Computations and Algebraic Relationships
RIT Score: Less than 145
Whole Number Computations
Addition
1.	Add with cubes - sums up to 5 
 
2.	Add with pictures - sums up to 5 
 
Subtraction
3.	Subtract with cubes - numbers up to 5 
 
4.	Take away cubes - numbers up to 5 
 
5.	Subtract with pictures - numbers up to 5 
 
Represent and Solve Problems
Addition
1.	Addition word problems with pictures - sums up to 5 
 
2.	Addition word problems - sums up to 5 
 
Subtraction
3.	Subtraction word problems with pictures - numbers up to 5 
 
4.	Subtraction word problems - numbers up to 5 
 
RIT Score: 146–158
Whole Number Computations
Addition
1.	Add with cubes - sums up to 10 
 
2.	Add with pictures - sums up to 10 
 
Subtraction
3.	Subtract with cubes - numbers up to 10 
 
4.	Subtract with pictures - numbers up to 10 
 
5.	Take away cubes - numbers up to 10 
 
Represent and Solve Problems
Addition
1.	Addition word problems with pictures - sums up to 10 
 
2.	Addition word problems - sums up to 10 
 
Subtraction
3.	Subtraction word problems with pictures - numbers up to 10 
 
4.	Subtraction word problems - numbers up to 10 
 
Mixed operations
5.	Addition and subtraction word problems 
 
RIT Score: 159–167
Whole Number Computations
Addition skill builders
1.	Adding 1 
 
2.	Adding 2 
 
3.	Adding 3 
 
4.	Adding 4 
 
5.	Adding 5 
 
6.	Adding 6 
 
7.	Adding 7 
 
8.	Adding 8 
 
9.	Adding 9 
 
10.	Adding 0 
 
Add within 10
11.	Addition sentences up to 10: which model matches? 
 
12.	Addition facts - sums up to 10 
 
13.	Make a number using addition - sums up to 10 
 
14.	Ways to make a number - addition sentences up to 10 
 
15.	Complete the addition sentence - sums up to 10 
 
Subtraction skill builders
16.	Subtracting 1 
 
17.	Subtracting 2 
 
18.	Subtracting 3 
 
19.	Subtracting 4 
 
20.	Subtracting 5 
 
21.	Subtracting 6 
 
22.	Subtracting 7 
 
23.	Subtracting 8 
 
24.	Subtracting 9 
 
25.	Subtracting 0 
 
Subtract within 10
26.	Subtraction sentences up to 10: which model matches? 
 
27.	Subtraction facts - up to 10 
 
28.	Make a number using subtraction - up to 10 
 
29.	Ways to make a number - subtraction sentences up to 10 
 
30.	Ways to subtract from a number - subtraction sentences up to 10 
 
31.	Complete the subtraction sentence - up to 10 
 
Mixed operations
32.	Addition and subtraction facts - up to 10 
 
33.	Balance addition and subtraction equations - up to 10 
Represent and Solve Problems
Addition
1.	Addition word problems with pictures - sums up to 10 
 
2.	Addition word problems - sums up to 10 
 
3.	Addition sentences for word problems - sums up to 10 
 
Subtraction
4.	Subtraction word problems with pictures - up to 10 
 
5.	Subtraction word problems - up to 10 
 
6.	Subtraction sentences for word problems - up to 10 
 
RIT Score: 168–175
Whole Number Computations
Add within 20
1.	Addition facts - sums up to 20 
 
2.	Make a number using addition - sums up to 20 
 
3.	Complete the addition sentence - sums up to 20 
 
Addition strategies
4.	Related addition facts 
 
5.	Add using doubles plus one 
 
6.	Add using doubles minus one 
 
7.	Add three numbers - use doubles 
 
8.	Complete the addition sentence to make ten 
 
9.	Add three numbers - make ten 
 
10.	Add three numbers 
 
11.	Use ten to add - sums up to 20 
Subtract within 20
12.	Subtraction facts - up to 20 
 
13.	Make a number using subtraction - up to 20 
 
14.	Complete the subtraction sentence - up to 20 
 
Subtraction strategies
15.	Related subtraction facts 
 
16.	Use addition to subtract - up to 20 
 
17.	Subtract doubles 
 
Mixed operations
18.	Addition and subtraction - ways to make a number 
 
19.	Fact families - up to 10 
 
20.	Addition and subtraction facts - up to 20 
 
21.	Relate addition and subtraction sentences - up to 20 
 
22.	Balance addition and subtraction equations - up to 20 
 
Represent and Solve Problems
Addition
1.	Addition word problems - sums up to 20 
 
2.	Addition sentences for word problems - sums up to 20 
 
3.	Add three numbers - word problems 
 
Subtraction
4.	Subtraction word problems - up to 20 
 
5.	Subtraction sentences for word problems - up to 20 
 
RIT Score: 176–182
Whole Number Computations
Addition
1.	Add one-digit numbers - sums to 20 
 
2.	Complete the addition sentence - sums to 20 
 
Subtraction
3.	Subtract a one-digit number from a two-digit number up to 20 
 
4.	Subtract zero or all 
 
5.	Complete the subtraction sentence - up to 20 
 
Mixed operations
6.	Addition and subtraction - up to 20 
 
Represent and Solve Problems
Addition
1.	Addition word problems - sums to 20 
 
2.	Addition word problems - three one-digit numbers 
 
3.	Addition sentences for word problems - sums to 20 
 
Subtraction
4.	Subtraction word problems - up to 20 
 
5.	Subtraction sentences for word problems - up to 20 
 
Mixed operations
6.	Addition and subtraction word problems - up to 20 
 
RIT Score: 183–188
Whole Number Computations
Addition without regrouping
1.	Add a two-digit and a one-digit number - without regrouping 
 
2.	Add two-digit numbers without regrouping - sums to 100 
 
3.	Use models to add two-digit numbers - without regrouping 
 
4.	Use compensation to add - up to two digits 
 
Addition with regrouping
5.	Add a two-digit and a one-digit number - with regrouping 
 
6.	Use models to add two-digit numbers - with regrouping 
 
7.	Add two-digit numbers with regrouping - sums to 100 
 
8.	Add two-digit numbers - sums to 200 
 
9.	Add three numbers up to two digits each 
 
10.	Add four numbers up to two digits each 
 
Subtraction without regrouping
11.	Subtract a one-digit number from a two-digit number - without regrouping 
 
12.	Subtract two-digit numbers - without regrouping 
 
Subtraction with regrouping
13.	Subtract a one-digit number from a two-digit number - with regrouping 
 
14.	Subtract two-digit numbers - with regrouping 
 
Input/output tables
15.	Input/output tables - add and subtract by 100 
16.	Input/output tables - add and subtract by 10 or 100 
 
Represent and Solve Problems
Two-digit addition
1.	Addition word problems - up to two digits 
 
2.	Addition word problems - three numbers up to two digits each 
 
3.	Addition word problems - four numbers up to two digits each 
 
4.	Write the addition sentence - up to two digits 
 
Three-digit addition
5.	Addition word problems - up to three digits 
 
6.	Write the addition sentence - up to three digits 
 
Two-digit subtraction
7.	Subtraction word problems - up to two digits 
 
8.	Write the subtraction sentence - up to two digits 
 
Three-digit subtraction
9.	Subtraction word problems - up to three digits 
 
10.	Write the subtraction sentence - up to three digits 
 
Addition and subtraction
11.	Addition and subtraction word problems - up to 100 
 
12.	Two-step addition and subtraction word problems - up to 100 
 
Repeated addition
13.	Identify repeated addition for arrays - sums to 10 
 
14.	Write addition sentences for arrays - sums to 10 
 
15.	Identify repeated addition for arrays - sums to 25 
 
16.	Write addition sentences for arrays - sums to 25 
 
Multiplication
17.	Count equal groups 
 
Division
18.	Divide by counting equal groups 
 
19.	Write division sentences for groups 
 
RIT Score: 189–194
Whole Number Computations
Addition and subtraction
1.	Add two numbers up to three digits 
 
2.	Add three numbers up to three digits each 
 
3.	Addition up to three digits: fill in the missing digits 
 
4.	Subtract numbers up to three digits 
 
Relate addition and multiplication
5.	Relate addition and multiplication for equal groups 
 
6.	Relate addition and multiplication 
 
Multiplication
7.	Identify multiplication expressions for equal groups 
 
8.	Write multiplication sentences for equal groups 
 
9.	Identify multiplication expressions for arrays 
 
10.	Write multiplication sentences for arrays 
 
11.	Make arrays to model multiplication 
 
12.	Write multiplication sentences for number lines 
 
Division
13.	Divide by counting equal groups 
 
14.	Write division sentences for groups 
 
15.	Write division sentences for arrays 
 
Skip-counting
16.	Skip-count 
 
17.	Skip-counting puzzles 
 
Represent and Solve Problems
Addition and subtraction
1.	Add two numbers up to three digits: word problems 
 
2.	Add three numbers up to three digits each: word problems 
 
3.	Subtract numbers up to three digits: word problems 
 
Properties of operations
4.	Complete the equation using properties of addition 
 
Relationship between addition and subtraction
5.	Complete the addition sentence: up to three digits 
 
6.	Balance addition equations: up to three digits 
 
7.	Complete the subtraction sentence: up to three digits 
 
8.	Balance subtraction equations: up to three digits 
 
Mixed operations
9.	Comparing: with addition and subtraction 
 
10.	Addition and subtraction word problems: up to three digits 
 
11.	Two-step addition and subtraction word problems 
 
RIT Score: 195+
Whole Number Computations
Multiplication skill builders
1.	Multiply 0 by numbers up to 10 
 
2.	Multiply 1 by numbers up to 10 
 
3.	Multiply 2 by numbers up to 10 
 
4.	Multiply 3 by numbers up to 10 
 
5.	Multiply 4 by numbers up to 10 
 
6.	Multiply 5 by numbers up to 10 
 
7.	Multiply 6 by numbers up to 10 
 
8.	Multiply 7 by numbers up to 10 
 
9.	Multiply 8 by numbers up to 10 
 
10.	Multiply 9 by numbers up to 10 
 
11.	Multiply 10 by numbers up to 10 
 
Multiplication facts for 2, 3, 4, 5, and 10
12.	Multiplication facts for 2, 3, 4, 5, and 10 
 
13.	Multiplication facts for 2, 3, 4, 5, and 10: true or false? 
 
14.	Multiplication facts for 2, 3, 4, 5, and 10: sorting 
 
15.	Multiplication facts for 2, 3, 4, 5, and 10: find the missing factor 
 
Multiplication facts for 6, 7, 8, and 9
16.	Multiplication facts for 6, 7, 8, and 9 
 
17.	Multiplication facts for 6, 7, 8, and 9: true or false? 
 
18.	Multiplication facts for 6, 7, 8, and 9: sorting 
 
19.	Multiplication facts for 6, 7, 8, and 9: find the missing factor 
 
Multiplication facts up to 12
20.	Multiplication facts up to 10 
 
21.	Multiplication facts up to 10: true or false? 
 
22.	Multiplication facts up to 10: sorting 
 
23.	Multiplication sentences up to 10: true or false? 
 
24.	Multiplication facts up to 10: find the missing factor 
 
25.	Multiplication facts up to 10: select the missing factors 
 
26.	Multiplication facts up to 12: find the missing factor 
 
27.	Multiplication facts up to 12: select the missing factors 
 
Division skill builders
28.	Divide by 1: quotients up to 10 
 
29.	Divide by 2: quotients up to 10 
 
30.	Divide by 3: quotients up to 10 
 
31.	Divide by 4: quotients up to 10 
 
32.	Divide by 5: quotients up to 10 
 
33.	Divide by 6: quotients up to 10 
 
34.	Divide by 7: quotients up to 10 
 
35.	Divide by 8: quotients up to 10 
 
36.	Divide by 9: quotients up to 10 
 
37.	Divide by 10: quotients up to 10 
 
Division facts for 2, 3, 4, 5, and 10
38.	Division facts for 2, 3, 4, 5, and 10 
 
39.	Division facts for 2, 3, 4, 5, and 10: true or false? 
 
40.	Division facts for 2, 3, 4, 5, and 10: sorting 
 
Division facts for 6, 7, 8, and 9
41.	Division facts for 6, 7, 8, and 9 
 
42.	Division facts for 6, 7, 8, and 9: true or false? 
 
43.	Division facts for 6, 7, 8, and 9: sorting 
 
Division facts up to 12
44.	Division facts up to 10 
 
45.	Division facts up to 10: true or false? 
 
46.	Division facts up to 10: sorting 
 
47.	Division sentences up to 10: true or false? 
 
48.	Division facts up to 10: find the missing number 
 
49.	Division facts up to 10: select the missing numbers 
 
50.	Division facts up to 12: find the missing number 
 
51.	Division facts up to 12: select the missing numbers 
 
Multiply by two-digit numbers
52.	Multiplication patterns over increasing place values 
 
53.	Multiply by a multiple of ten 
 
54.	Multiply one-digit numbers by two-digit numbers using area models I 
 
55.	Multiply one-digit numbers by two-digit numbers using area models II 
 
56.	Multiply one-digit numbers by two-digit numbers 
 
57.	Multiply one-digit numbers by two-digit numbers: word problems 
 
Properties of multiplication
58.	Properties of multiplication 
 
59.	Distributive property: find the missing factor 
 
60.	Multiply using the distributive property 
 
61.	Solve using properties of multiplication 
 
Mixed operations
62.	Multiplication and division facts up to 5: true or false? 
 
63.	Multiplication and division facts up to 10: true or false? 
 
64.	Solve for the unknown number: multiplication and division only 
 
Represent and Solve Problems
One-step problems
1.	Multiplication word problems with factors up to 10 
 
2.	Compare numbers using multiplication: word problems 
 
3.	Division word problems 
 
4.	Multiplication and division word problems 
 
5.	Add, subtract, multiply, and divide 
 
6.	Addition, subtraction, multiplication, and division word problems 
 
Two-step problems
7.	Two-step multiplication and division word problems 
 
Variable equations
8.	Write equations with unknown numbers to represent word problems: multiplication and division only 
 
Geometry and Measurement
RIT Score: Less than 145
Geometry and Spatial Sense
Identify shapes
1.	Name the two-dimensional shape 
 
2.	Circles 
 
3.	Triangles 
 
4.	Squares 
 
5.	Rectangles 
 
6.	Select circles, triangles, squares, and rectangles 
Describe shapes
7.	Curved parts 
 
8.	Count corners 
 
9.	Square corners 
 
10.	Count sides 
 
11.	Equal sides 
 
12.	Count sides and corners 
 
13.	Compare sides and corners 
 
Flat and solid shapes
14.	Flat and solid shapes 
 
Solve Problems Involving Measurement
1.	Long and short 
 
2.	Tall and short 
 
3.	Light and heavy 
 
4.	Holds more or less 
 
RIT Score: 146–158
Geometry and Spatial Sense
Three-dimensional figures
1.	Name the three-dimensional shape 
 
2.	Spheres 
 
3.	Cubes 
 
4.	Cones 
 
5.	Cylinders 
 
6.	Select three-dimensional shapes 
 
7.	Identify faces of three-dimensional shapes 
Everyday objects
8.	Three-dimensional shapes in the real world I 
 
9.	Three-dimensional shapes in the real world II 
 
Solve Problems Involving Measurement
1.	Compare size, weight, and capacity 
 
RIT Score: 159–167
Geometry and Spatial Sense
Two-dimensional figures
1.	Classify shapes based on their sides 
 
2.	Name the two-dimensional shape 
 
3.	Select two-dimensional shapes 
 
4.	Rhombuses 
 
5.	Square corners 
 
6.	Equal sides 
 
7.	Open and closed shapes 
 
8.	Compare sides and corners 
 
9.	Count sides and corners 
 
Three-dimensional figures
10.	Name the three-dimensional shape 
 
11.	Select three-dimensional shapes 
 
12.	Cubes and rectangular prisms 
 
13.	Compare vertices, edges, and faces 
 
14.	Count vertices, edges, and faces 
 
15.	Identify shapes traced from solids 
 
16.	Identify faces of three-dimensional shapes 
 
Two- and three-dimensional figures
17.	Two-dimensional and three-dimensional shapes 
 
Solve Problems Involving Measurement
Length
1.	Measure length with objects 
 
2.	Build cube trains to measure length 
 
Time
3.	Match digital clocks and times 
 
4.	Match analog clocks and times: to the half hour 
 
RIT Score: 168–175
Geometry and Spatial Sense
Compose shapes
1.	Compose two-dimensional shapes using up to 4 smaller shapes 
 
Partition shapes
2.	Equal parts - 2 and 4 equal parts 
 
3.	Make halves 
 
4.	Make fourths 
 
5.	Make halves and fourths 
 
6.	Make halves and fourths in different ways 
 
Identify fractions
7.	Identify halves and fourths 
 
8.	Identify fourths 
9.	Identify halves 
 
Solve Problems Involving Measurement
Measure length
1.	Measure using an inch ruler 
 
2.	Measure using a centimeter ruler 
 
Word problems
3.	Customary units of length: word problems 
 
4.	Metric units of length: word problems 
 
Time
5.	Match analog and digital clocks: to the half hour 
 
6.	Read clocks and write times 
 
RIT Score: 176–182
Geometry and Spatial Sense
1.	Name polygons: up to 12 sides 
 
2.	Select two-dimensional shapes 
 
3.	Count sides and vertices 
 
4.	Compose two-dimensional shapes 
 
Solve Problems Involving Measurement
Length
1.	Measure using an inch ruler 
 
2.	Measure using a centimeter ruler 
 
3.	Which customary unit of length is appropriate: inches or feet? 
 
4.	Which customary unit of length is appropriate: inches, feet, or yards? 
 
5.	Which metric unit of length is appropriate? 
 
Time
6.	Match analog clocks and times to the minute 
 
7.	Match analog and digital clocks to the minute 
 
8.	Read analog clocks and write times to the minute 
 
9.	A.M. or P.M. 
 
RIT Score: 183–188
Geometry and Spatial Sense
1.	Select three-dimensional shapes 
 
Solve Problems Involving Measurement
Length
1.	Customary units of length: word problems 
 
2.	Metric units of length: word problems 
 
Area
3.	Area 
 
4.	Select figures with a given area 
 
5.	Create rectangles with a given area 
6.	Tile a rectangle and find the area 
 
7.	Tile a rectangle with squares 
 
Time
8.	Compare clocks to the minute 
 
9.	Time patterns to the minute 
 
RIT Score: 189–194
Geometry and Spatial Sense
Two-dimensional figures
1.	Identify polygons: up to 12 sides 
 
2.	Count and compare sides and vertices 
 
Three-dimensional figures
3.	Count vertices, edges, and faces 
 
4.	Identify faces of three-dimensional shapes 
 
5.	Identify three-dimensional shapes 
 
Solve Problems Involving Measurement
Time
1.	Find the end time 
 
2.	Time patterns 
 
Measurement
3.	Which customary unit of weight is appropriate? 
 
4.	Which customary unit of volume is appropriate? 
 
5.	Which metric unit of volume is appropriate? 
 
6.	Choose the appropriate measuring tool 
 
Perimeter
7.	Perimeter of rectangles 
 
RIT Score: 195+
Geometry and Spatial Sense
Quadrilaterals
1.	Classify squares, rectangles, rhombuses, parallelograms, and trapezoids 
 
2.	Identify parallelograms 
 
3.	Identify trapezoids 
 
4.	Identify rectangles 
 
5.	Identify rhombuses 
 
Attributes
6.	Parallel sides in quadrilaterals 
 
Draw quadrilaterals
7.	Draw squares, rectangles, rhombuses, parallelograms, and trapezoids 
 
Solve Problems Involving Measurement
Perimeter
1.	Perimeter of rectilinear shapes 
 
2.	Perimeter of polygons 
 
3.	Perimeter: find the missing side length 
 
4.	Perimeter: word problems 
 
Area
5.	Find the area of rectangles and squares 
 
6.	Find the missing side length of a rectangle 
 
7.	Find the area of rectangles with missing unit squares 
 
8.	Find the area of rectangles: word problems 
 
Area and perimeter
9.	Compare area and perimeter of two figures 
 
Data Analysis and Money
RIT Score: Less than 145
Organizing, Displaying, and Interpreting Data
Classify and sort
1.	Classify shapes by color 
 
2.	Classify and sort by color 
 
3.	Classify and sort by shape 
 
4.	Classify and sort 
 
5.	Classify, sort, and count 
 
Venn diagrams
6.	Sort shapes into a Venn diagram 
 
Money
1.	Coin names - penny through quarter 
 
RIT Score: 146–158
Organizing, Displaying, and Interpreting Data
1.	Which picture graph is correct? 
 
2.	Create picture graphs 
 
3.	Interpret picture graphs 
 
Money
1.	Coin names - penny through quarter 
 
RIT Score: 159–167
Organizing, Displaying, and Interpreting Data
Picture graphs
1.	Which picture graph is correct? 
 
2.	Interpret picture graphs 
 
Tally charts
3.	Which tally chart is correct? 
 
4.	Interpret tally charts 
 
Money
Identify coins
1.	Names and values of common coins 
 
2.	Names and values of all coins 
 
Count coins
3.	Count pennies, nickels, and dimes 
 
4.	Count pennies, nickels, dimes, and quarters 
 
RIT Score: 168–175
Organizing, Displaying, and Interpreting Data
Bar graphs
1.	Which bar graph is correct? 
 
2.	Interpret bar graphs I 
 
3.	Interpret bar graphs II 
 
Tables
4.	Record data in tables 
 
5.	Interpret data in tables 
 
Money
1.	Equivalent groups of coins 
 
2.	Exchanging coins - with pictures 
 
3.	Least number of coins 
 
4.	Exchanging coins 
 
5.	Count groups of like coins: pennies, nickels, or dimes 
 
RIT Score: 176–182
Organizing, Displaying, and Interpreting Data
Pictographs
1.	Create picture graphs 
 
2.	Interpret picture graphs 
 
Bar graphs
3.	Create bar graphs 
 
4.	Interpret bar graphs I 
 
5.	Which bar graph is correct? 
 
Money
Identify coins
1.	Names and values of common coins 
 
2.	Names and values of all coins 
 
Count money
3.	Count money - pennies, nickels, and dimes only 
 
4.	Count money up to $1 
 
5.	Count money up to $5 
 
RIT Score: 183–188
Organizing, Displaying, and Interpreting Data
Pictographs
1.	Create scaled picture graphs 
 
2.	Interpret scaled picture graphs 
 
Bar graphs
3.	Interpret bar graphs II 
 
Money
Ways to make an amount
1.	Equivalent amounts of money up to $1 
 
2.	Exchanging money 
 
3.	How much more to make a dollar? 
 
Compare money
4.	Exchanging money II 
 
5.	Do you have enough money? - up to $1 
 
Write dollar amounts
6.	Write dollar amounts - up to $1 
 
Add and subtract money
7.	Add and subtract money up to $1: word problems 
 
8.	Correct amount of change 
 
RIT Score: 189–194
Organizing, Displaying, and Interpreting Data
Tables
1.	Interpret tally charts 
 
2.	Interpret data in tables 
 
Pictographs
3.	Interpret scaled picture graphs 
 
Money
1.	Count coins and bills - up to $5 bill 
 
2.	Which picture shows more? 
 
RIT Score: 195+
Organizing, Displaying, and Interpreting Data
Line plots
1.	Interpret line plots 
 
Bar graphs
2.	Interpret scaled bar graphs 
 
3.	Use bar graphs to solve problems 
 
Money
1.	Count coins and bills word problems - up to $5 bill 
 
2.	Purchases - do you have enough money - up to $10 
 